Back in our app, let's start with logging in and signing up. There,
things can go wrong because we can simply enter invalid email password combinations and we want to handle
this.
Now we're of course showing this validation errors to the user already
but if we are trying to create a user with an e-mail address that's already taken, well then we just get
that error on the right and our app is broken
and this is not really what I want to do,
I don't want to break my app,
we should be able to recover from that and give the user another try.
So to add such error handling, the first simple thing to do is add a handler in your observable which
is responsible for sending the erroneous request.
So for signing up for example in the auth service, here in the createUser method, we are subscribing and
we're handling the response here,
we're not handling the error though.
We can do so by adding a second argument to the subscribe method,
that will be the error handler.
Well there we can simply get that error object which we're receiving
and for example, let's log this to the console.
Now if we save that and we go back to the application, let's try this again. If I enter something invalid here,
we still are loading infinitely
but now we're not seeing that big error message. Well we still got that small one which makes sense
because there is an error after all
and the browser does report this
but the fact that we're seeing this here, if we wouldn't log it here, we wouldn't even see that,
so it's less of a big red block
but the main issue we of course still have is that our loader doesn't stop for example. Now for signing
up and logging in,
that simply is happening because if we have a look at our sign-up component and it's the same for signing
in, reset is loading to true right before we send the request
but we're not expecting this request to fail.
Now the simple solution here is to simply return our request observable here,
so this HTTP post and to not subscribe here in this component, we don't need the result here anyways but
subscribe in the sign-up component. There when we call create user,
we're now getting back the observable and we can now enter or add that subscribe method here.
Don't do anything, so pass null for the first argument,
don't pass a method here because we're not caring about it anyways but pass a method here and we
get the error there and we could do anything with it
but for now, let's simply set this isLoading to false here, to remove that spinner again. With that in
place, now if we enter that password which is already taken, that e-mail which is already taken,
well now we're getting another try
and now if we do enter something valid here, it fails,
right.
So something still broke about this application due to that error.
Now the problem here is actually not that
it would not send that request, it did,
the problem is that it doesn't redirect us.
If we have a look at the auth service, for create user it can't redirect us because we've never added this
logic here
and now that we removed the subscribe method from that service and put it into the component, we would
have to do that redirection here in the sign-up component.
So error handling is kind of working but not ideally,
instead I want to remove that subscribe call here from the component again,
it was nice seeing it but I don't want to do it here and put it back into the auth service. So I won't
return that observable,
instead I will subscribe here and for the
success case where we created a user, I will indeed use this router and navigate and for the error case,
I'll have to come up with something different when it comes to disabling that spinner
and we would have needed to do that anyways because in the login component,
well we had no chance of doing that because there in the auth service,
we've got a bunch of logic in the subscribe call or in that first callback and therefore, it was never
an option to put that into the component,
so let's see what else we can do.
So we want to disable that loader in the sign-up and login component without subscribing in these components
because we need to subscribe in our auth service due to various things we need to do there.
Well there's more than one way of working around this.
For one, we could subscribe in the components and utilize an operator in the auth service, the tab operator
which simply allows us to execute some actions before the observable is done.
Now this would be perfectly fine and would be something we could do here but we can also use a different
approach,
we can of course use the subject we already have here,
the AuthStatusListener. We're not using it in a sign-up and login component yet because thus far, we
weren't interested in whether the user is authenticated or not.
Well we can get interested,
so in the sign-up component, I can implement onInit, this interface which we have to import from
@angular/core and therefore I'm required to add @ngOnInit
and now I can use the auth service, get my AuthStatusListener and subscribe to it.
Now you learn that we have manage the subscription, so let's store it in the authStatus sub-property
which is of type subscription which we actually have to import from rxjs,
so make sure to add this import. And with that added, we have to add the onDestroy interface here and
also import that from @angular/core to then implement ngOnDestroy at the bottom and there, using
our authStatus subscription to unsubscribe.
Now that of course means I need to set up a subscription first and I'm doing it here,
I just need to store it,
so this authStatus, whoops, authStatus.
sub hold the subscription returned by this subscribed call.
Now in that subscribe call,
I will get my authStatus which is a boolean and I can take that authStatus to control my loader. If that
switches to false,
I want to set this isLoading to false. Now in my auth service, in create user when I'm navigating away,
I don't care about that spinner anyway because we're going away from the component and we're therefore
destructuring it
but if we fail, then I actually want to emit an event and inform the entire app that we're not authenticated.
Most parts of the app don't really care about this and won't update their templates
but our spinner will actually go away due to our subscription.
So I will add my error handler as the second argument in the subscribe method now and then use my
AuthStatusListener to push that false value to the entire app.
And now if we save that and we go back and we try to sign-up for a given email address again,
now you see it fails
and if I now take another one which wasn't taken, then I do sign-up there
and we can check the network tab and see that indeed, we did create a new user successfully but somehow
we're not getting redirected
but this will simply happening due to a compilation error on my side.
Now that I restarted this, if I try this again and I sign-up with credentials which are taken, I fail
but if I then use credentials which are not taken, so an e-mail address which is not taken, I successfully
sign-up and that of course means we can use that same flow in the login component,
so let me copy ngOnInit and the constructor from the sign-up component, put it into the login component,
well we already got the constructor there but let's still override it then. Let's implement onInit
and onDestroy here too. Make sure to import both from @angular/core and then from the sign-up component,
I'll take my authStatus subscription and add this field here at the beginning. Subscription is something
we need to import from rxjs,
so copy that import too and add it in your login component
and last but not least, we also need to unsubscribe,
so let's take ngOnDestroy,
go to the login component and also add this to clear our subscription and now we get the same setting
here too.
Now if we fail to login, we should actually remove that spinner.
So if we go to login and let's say we enter an invalid password, then I'm not authorized and yes, we
should of course go to the auth service to login and handle the error case here in the subscription
too because we are of course setting up the subscription to the response there.
So let's add the second argument which is that error
we're getting and there, we're using the AuthStatusListener and we'll emit false as a value.
And now we get everything in place we need to go back, enter invalid credentials and remove that spinner
and get a second try
and if we then enter the right credentials, here we are.
So now we get this in place,
it would still be nice to see some kind of error message, I guess.
So let's work on this next.